docs(changelog): add 8.6.0 (#5215)
canonical/snapcraft: docs/reference/changelog.rst

  For a complete list of commits, check out the `X.Y.Z`_ release on GitHub.

8.6.0 (2025-Feb-05)
-------------------

Core
====

.. note::

  Unless stated otherwise, the changes in this section apply to snaps using
  ``core22`` or ``core24`` bases.

* Add ``chisel`` as a ``build-snap`` if any part has slices and ``chisel``
  isn't already listed as a ``build-snap``.

Plugins
#######

Ant
"""

* Set ``JAVA_HOME`` environment variable to allow the
  :ref:`Ant plugin <craft_parts_maven_plugin>` to detect the latest available
  JDK.

Go Use
""""""

> * Add a new :ref:`Go Use plugin<craft_parts_go_use_plugin>` for setting up a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add the new :ref:`Go Use plugin<craft_parts_go_use_plugin>` for setting up a
```

Making it clear that there wasn't a previous Go Use plugin.

Alternatively:

```rst
* Add a new plugin, :ref:`Go Use <craft_parts_go_use_plugin>` for setting up a
```

  `workspace <https://go.dev/ref/mod#workspaces>`_ for Go modules.

Maven
"""""

* Set ``JAVA_HOME`` environment variable to allow the
  :ref:`Maven plugin <craft_parts_maven_plugin>` to detect the latest available
  JDK.

Rust
""""

* Fix dependency validation for the ``rust`` plugin when a ``rust-deps``
  part exists (`canonical/craft-parts#890`_).

Poetry
""""""

* Add new ``poetry-export-extra-args`` and ``poetry-pip-extra-args`` keys
  (`canonical/craft-parts#932`_).

* Fix an issue where the :ref:`poetry plugin <craft_parts_poetry_plugin>` would

>   try to install poetry from the package repositories when ``poetry-deps`` was

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  try to install Poetry from the package repositories when ``poetry-deps`` was
```

Their documentation isn't 100% consistent with this spelling, but the majority of the instances have a capital _p_.

  declared as a dependency (`canonical/charmcraft#1996`_).

uv
""

> * Add a new :ref:`uv plugin<craft_parts_uv_plugin>` for projects using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add the new :ref:`uv plugin<craft_parts_uv_plugin>` for projects that use
```

  `uv <https://docs.astral.sh/uv/>`_.

Extensions
##########

> KDE Neon 6

Reviewer: Related to the extension migration: is this the preferred name? I went with "Qt 5 with KDE Neon [x]" but I'm quite happy to trim it.

Author: Ah, right.  Previously, the name was `kde-neon-6` and the title was informally `KDE Neon 6`.  I like your title because it's more descriptive.  My only concern is that it may mislead someone that they can use this extension for QT6 apps that aren't KDE applications.

@lengau - thoughts?

Reviewer 2: I would be hesitant to headline this as something containing Qt since it does pull in the full KDE Neon content snap, especially since there's work on a separate Qt content snap.

Author: Leaving it as-is for now.

""""""""""

* Add support for ``core24`` snaps.

* Fix a bug where themes defined in ``$SNAP_REAL_HOME/.config/kdeglobals``

>   would not be loaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  wouldn't load.
```

ROS 2 Jazzy
"""""""""""

> * Remove the experimental flag from the ROS 2 Jazzy extension.

Reviewer: Great!

Command line
============

> * Show error details in all verbosity modes except ``quiet``.

Reviewer: Since this is a long-form argument and we're quoting it, what are your thoughts on formatting it as `--quiet`?

Author: I agree in principle, but `quiet` can be defined with `-q`, `--quiet`, `--verbosity=quiet`, or `CRAFT_VERBOSITY=quiet`, so `quiet` focuses on the level itself rather than the way it is defined.

* Improve error presentation when the snap fails to pack.
* Improve error presentation when a step or an override script fails
  by splitting stderr and stdout.

Store
=====

* Remove the ``list-registries`` and ``edit-registries`` commands. In a future
  release, these commands will be replaced with ``list-confdbs`` and
  ``edit-confdbs`` (`#5139`_).

> * Fix a bug where snaps could not be uploaded on some ``arm64`` and ``amd64``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fix a bug where snaps could not be uploaded on some ARM64 and AMD64
```
